Solving Problems with v0.5
==========================

Overview
~~~~~~~~

The major focus of the Qiskit Nature v0.5 refactoring was the
description and representation of second-quantized operators and
problems. Nonetheless, the ``algorithms`` module and supporting modules
did also receive significant updates. Most importantly all algorithms In
Nature are now dependent on the new Qiskit Terra algorithms, and these
are now based on `Qiskit
Primitives <https://qiskit.org/documentation/apidoc/primitives.html>`__
and were added in Qiskit Terra 0.22. It is not the intention to provide
detailed explanations of the primitives in this migration guide. We
suggest that you read the `corresponding
resources <https://qiskit.org/documentation/apidoc/primitives.html>`__
of the Qiskit Terra documentation instead.

Further Resources
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

For more details, please refer to the corresponding tutorials:

-  `Ground State Solvers <../tutorials/03_ground_state_solvers.ipynb>`__
-  `Excited States
   Solvers <../tutorials/04_excited_states_solvers.ipynb>`__
-  `Qubit Mappers <../tutorials/06_qubit_mappers.ipynb>`__

``qiskit_nature.mappers``
=========================

The mappers of Qiskit Nature did **not** receive any API changes (other
than potentially requiring certain arguments to be keywords; see also
the `“Too many positional arguments” section <./0.5_a_intro.ipynb>`__).
However, the entire module ``qiskit_nature.mappers.second_quantization``
has been moved to ``qiskit_nature.second_q.mappers``. So updating your
import is all you need to do here.

``qiskit_nature.converters``
============================

This module contained a single component: ``QubitConverter``. This has
been moved to ``qiskit_nature.second_q.mappers.QubitConverter`` so you
can simply update your import path.

API changes were again minimal but the operators being translated by
this class are no longer the legacy ``SecondQuantizedOp`` but rather the
new ``SparseLabelOp`` objects.

``qiskit_nature.circuit``
=========================

The entire ``qiskit_nature.circuit`` module was relocated to
``qiskit_nature.second_q.circuit``. The reason for this, is that the
existing circuit were actually only applicable to second-quantized
applications, but the API did not reflect this. Updating your imports
should fix *most* issues.

However, there are two more details to take note of, detailed below.

Number of Orbitals
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We have been consistently describing the number of orbitals via
``num_spin_orbitals`` throughout the package. However, what this
oftentimes implied (without rigorous checks) was that an **even** number
was supplied, since the number of spin orbitals was assumed to equal
twice the number of **spatial** orbitals.

To be more rigorous and avoid the ill-defined behavior when providing
*odd* numbers for ``num_spin_orbitals``, we have switched the entire
stack to use ``num_spatial_orbitals`` instead. This is well defined for
any positive integer value (and negative values are guarded against).

What this means for you in practice, is that whenever you supply the
``num_spin_orbitals`` manually in the past, you now need to supply
**half the value** to represent the ``num_spatial_orbitals``.

Previously
^^^^^^^^^^

.. code:: ipython3

    from qiskit_nature.circuit.library import UCCSD

    ansatz = UCCSD()
    ansatz.num_spin_orbitals = 10

New
^^^

.. code:: ipython3

    from qiskit_nature.second_q.circuit.library import UCCSD

    ansatz = UCCSD()
    ansatz.num_spatial_orbitals = 5

UCC/UVCC ``__init__`` arguments
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``UCC`` and ``UVCC`` subclasses used to take the following arguments
for their ``__init__``:

Previously
^^^^^^^^^^

.. code:: ipython3

    from qiskit_nature.circuit.library import UCC, UVCC

    ucc = UCC(qubit_converter=None, num_particles=None, num_spin_orbitals=None, excitations=None)
    uvcc = UVCC(qubit_converter=None, num_modals=None, excitations=None)

New
^^^

This was mismatching the API of the ``HartreeFock`` and ``VSCF`` initial
states. We have aligned these APIs to look like in the following:

.. code:: ipython3

    from qiskit_nature.second_q.circuit.library import UCC, UVCC

    ucc = UCC(num_spatial_orbitals=None, num_particles=None, excitations=None, qubit_converter=None)
    uvcc = UVCC(num_modals=None, excitations=None, qubit_converter=None)

HartreeFock/VSCF initial states
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``HartreeFock`` and ``VSCF`` initial state circuits are now
implemented as ``BlueprintCircuit``. That means, that you can initialize
them without any arguments and supply the information later as shown
below:

Previously
^^^^^^^^^^

.. code:: ipython3

    from qiskit_nature.circuit.library import HartreeFock, VSCF
    from qiskit_nature.converters.second_quantization import QubitConverter
    from qiskit_nature.mappers.second_quantization import DirectMapper, JordanWignerMapper

    hf = HartreeFock(
        num_spin_orbitals=4, num_particles=(1, 1), qubit_converter=QubitConverter(JordanWignerMapper())
    )
    vscf = VSCF(num_modals=[2, 2])

New
^^^

.. code:: ipython3

    from qiskit_nature.second_q.circuit.library import HartreeFock, VSCF
    from qiskit_nature.second_q.mappers import DirectMapper, JordanWignerMapper, QubitConverter

    hf = HartreeFock()
    hf.num_spatial_orbitals = 2
    hf.num_particles = (1, 1)
    hf.qubit_converter = QubitConverter(JordanWignerMapper())

    vscf = VSCF()
    vscf.num_modals = [2, 2]

``qiskit_nature.algorithms``
============================

The algorithms in Qiskit Nature have been updated to use the new
``qiskit.algorithms`` components which are based on the
``qiskit.primitives`` as of Qiskit Terra 0.22.

For most changes to take effect, you can once again simply update your
import paths from ``qiskit_nature.algorithms`` to
``qiskit_nature.second_q.algorithms``. However, there are some details
which you need to pay attention to, due to the change to the
primitive-based algorithms of Qiskit Terra being used under the hood.
These details are explained below.

``qiskit_nature.algorithms.initial_points``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This module was moved to
``qiskit_nature.second_q.algorithms.initial_points``. All you need to do
is update your imports.

``qiskit_nature.algorithms.pes_samplers``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This module was **removed** without a replacement. The reason for that,
is that we are working towards a driver-less design of Qiskit Nature, in
which case the sampling of the potential energy surface becomes the
responsibility of the classical code rather than Qiskit Nature.

``qiskit_nature.algorithms.ground_state_solvers``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This module was moved to
``qiskit_nature.second_q.algorithms.ground_state_solvers``. Besides
updating your imports, you need to pay attention to the following:

-  ``AdaptVQE`` was migrated to Qiskit Terra:
   ``qiskit.algorithms.minimum_eigensolver.AdaptVQE``. In doing so, this
   is no longer a ``GroundStateSolver`` but rather became a
   ``MinimumEigensolver`` which means that you would use it like any
   other ``VQE`` and inject it **into** a ``GroundStateSolver`` of
   Qiskit Nature. To see the new ``AdaptVQE`` in action, check out the
   `How to use the AdaptVQE <../howtos/adapt_vqe.rst>`__.
-  the API of the ``VQEUCCFactory`` and ``VQEUVCCFactory`` has been
   matched with the new primitive-based ``VQE`` API

Previously
^^^^^^^^^^

.. code:: ipython3

    from qiskit.providers.basicaer import BasicAer
    from qiskit.utils import QuantumInstance
    from qiskit_nature.algorithms.ground_state_solvers import VQEUCCFactory

    quantum_instance = QuantumInstance(BasicAer.get_backend("statevector_simulator"))
    vqe_factory = VQEUCCFactory(quantum_instance=quantum_instance)


New
^^^

.. code:: ipython3

    from qiskit.algorithms.optimizers import SLSQP
    from qiskit.primitives import Estimator
    from qiskit_nature.second_q.circuit.library import UCCSD
    from qiskit_nature.second_q.algorithms.ground_state_solvers import VQEUCCFactory

    estimator = Estimator()
    ansatz = UCCSD()
    optimizer = SLSQP()

    vqe_factory = VQEUCCFactory(estimator, ansatz, optimizer)

``qiskit_nature.algorithms.excited_states_solvers``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This module was moved to
``qiskit_nature.second_q.algorithms.excited_states_solvers``. Besides
updating your imports, you need to pay attention to the following:

-  the ``QEOM`` API now also requires an `Estimator
   primitiver <https://qiskit.org/documentation/stubs/qiskit.primitives.BaseEstimator.html>`__
   to be provided

Previously
^^^^^^^^^^

.. code:: ipython3

    from qiskit_nature.algorithms.ground_state_solvers import GroundStateEigensolver, VQEUCCFactory
    from qiskit_nature.algorithms.excited_states_solvers import QEOM
    from qiskit_nature.converters.second_quantization import QubitConverter
    from qiskit_nature.mappers.second_quantization import JordanWignerMapper

    vqe_factory = VQEUCCFactory()
    converter = QubitConverter(JordanWignerMapper())
    ground_state_solver = GroundStateEigensolver(converter, vqe_factory)

    qeom = QEOM(ground_state_solver)


New
^^^

.. code:: ipython3

    from qiskit.algorithms.optimizers import SLSQP
    from qiskit.primitives import Estimator
    from qiskit_nature.second_q.circuit.library import UCCSD
    from qiskit_nature.second_q.algorithms.ground_state_solvers import (
        GroundStateEigensolver,
        VQEUCCFactory,
    )
    from qiskit_nature.second_q.algorithms.excited_states_solvers import QEOM
    from qiskit_nature.second_q.mappers import JordanWignerMapper, QubitConverter

    estimator = Estimator()
    ansatz = UCCSD()
    optimizer = SLSQP()

    vqe_factory = VQEUCCFactory(estimator, ansatz, optimizer)
    converter = QubitConverter(JordanWignerMapper())
    ground_state_solver = GroundStateEigensolver(converter, vqe_factory)

    qeom = QEOM(ground_state_solver, estimator)

